So when we calculate the
geometry of a data layer, for
example the length or the area,
we use that layers attribute
table to do so.
So we're going to start off by
calculating the area of the
Ziama protected area.
So let's open up the attribute
table for this layer.
And we need to create a new
column for Area so that we can
perform the geometry
calculation.
So to do that we need to click
Add at the top of the table and
this will bring up another table
window, which can look a bit
confusing, but we're going to go
over what each section is for.
So the new column that we've
just added is on the bottom row
here, and now we can set the
options for this new row.
So we're going to leave the
visible toggle box ticked on so
that we can see it.
We don't need to turn read only
on so we'll leave this how it is
and then in field name we can
set the name of the column in
here so we can just call it area
by double clicking on it and
typing area and then the alias
is an optional section and it's
just if you want to set a more
easy to understand column
heading for that field so we can
just put area in this as well.
And then for data type, if we
click on this, we can see the
different options.
So we're going to choose double
as this allows for numbers with
decimal points and we want an
accurate number for the area, so
we'll choose double.
And now the only other thing
that we need to worry about is
the number format.
So we'll go to this column here
and we're going to make sure
that it's set to numeric.
And once we put this in, it's
going to give us some other
options.
And so we can change how many
decimal places our numbers going
to have.
And we'll just put this down to
two because we don't need 6.
And then we'll click OK and now
we can shut this other table
window.
Make sure to save all of our
changes and now if we look in
our table for Ziama protected
area, we can see that we have a
new column for the area but we
don't have a number in here yet
as we need to calculate the
geometry.
So we right click on the Area
column heading and then we can
click on Calculate Geometry and
this will bring up this window.
Here our input feature is going
to be Ziama protected Area, so
we've already got that there. In
the field box we want to make
sure that the area column is
chosen.
And then for property, if we
click on the drop down arrow, we
can see all the options of the
different types of geometry that
we can calculate.
We just want area, so we can
click on the first option and
then for area units we're going
to use square kilometers.
So again, that's just the first
option that we have.
And then our coordinate system
is UTM zone 29 N, so that's what
it should be.
So we can keep that how it is
and just hit OK.
And now under the area column
heading we can see that we have
the area of Ziama, so it's
1221.01 kilometres squared.
So now have a go at calculating
the areas of the other two
protected areas, Wonegizi and
Wologizi.